README.md, before:

[TOC]

# 事件抽取与事件关系抽取论文整理

## 事件关系抽取

### 事件因果关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2020 | COLING |[KnowDis: Knowledge Enhanced Data Augmentation for Event Causality Detection via Distant Supervision](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.coling-main.135)||[COPA](https://people.ict.usc.edu/~gordon/copa.html)|
| 2020 | IJCAI | [Knowledge Enhanced Event Causality Identification with Mention Masking Generalizations](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2020/499) | [Code](https://github.com/jianliu-ml/EventCausalityIdentification) ||
| 2022 | SIGIR | [Towards Event-level Causal Relation Identification](https://doi.org/10.1145/3477495.3531758) | [Code](https://github.com/HITSZ-HLT/Graph4ECI) | [EventStoryLine](https://github.com/tommasoc80/EventStoryLine) |
### 事件共指关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2021 | AAAI | [Span-Based Event Coreference Resolution](https://www.aaai.org/AAAI21Papers/AAAI-9086.LJ.pdf) |||
| 2021 | EACL | [Automatic Data Acquisition for Event Coreference Resolution](https://aclanthology.org/2021.eacl-main.101/) | [Code](https://github.com/prafulla77/Event-Coref-EACL-2021) | [Data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NNBKiO4eYkGBjkdXGUieKg2fCWfbUBuf) |
| 2021 | NAACL | [A Context-Dependent Gated Module for Incorporating Symbolic Semantics into Event Coreference Resolution](http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.01697) | [Code](https://github.com/laituan245/eventcoref) | ACE 2005&KBP 2016 |
### 事件时序关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 | 描述 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: | :-----: |
| 2022 | Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience | [Temporal Relation Extraction with Joint Semantic and Syntactic Attention](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/cin/2022/5680971/) | | TimeBank-Dense & MATRES | |
| 2021 | IJCNLP | [TIMERS: Document-level Temporal Relation Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-short.67.pdf) |  |  |
| 2021 | [计算机研究与发展](https://crad.ict.ac.cn/) | [融合上下文信息的篇章级事件时序关系抽取方法](https://crad.ict.ac.cn/CN/abstract/abstract4529.shtml) |  |TimeBank-Dense & MATRES  |
| 2021 | NAACL |[EventPlus: A Temporal Event Understanding Pipeline](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04922) | [Code](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04922) | TimeBank-Dense, MATRES & ACE2005 | 事件抽取与事件时序关系抽取的流水线模型 |
| 2019 | ACL | [Fine-Grained Temporal Relation Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/P19-1280.pdf) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/time/) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/time/) |
| 2019 | CCF | [Event Temporal Relation Classification Based on Graph Convolutional Networks](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-32236-6_35) |  | TimeBank-Dense ||
| 2019 | CONLL | [Deep Structured Neural Network for Event Temporal Relation Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/K19-1062/) | [Code](https://github.com/PlusLabNLP/Deep-Structured-EveEveTemp) | TCR, TimeBank-Dense & MATRES ||
| 2018 |  | [TEMPROB: Improving Temporal Relation Extraction with a Globally Acquired Statistical Resource-ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/paper/2797731290) |  |  |  provides prior knowledge of the temporal order that some events usually follow.|

### 事件父子关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2022 | TACL | [Decomposing and Recomposing Event Structure](https://aclanthology.org/2022.tacl-1.2.pdf) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/event-structure/) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/event-structure/) |
| 2021 | EMNLP | [Learning Constraints and Descriptive Segmentation for Subevent Detection](https://cogcomp.seas.upenn.edu/page/publication_view/950) | [CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg](https://github.com/CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg) | [HiEve](https://github.com/CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg/tree/main/hievents_v2) and [IC](https://github.com/CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg/tree/main/IC) |
| 2021 | EMNLP | [Weakly Supervised Subevent Knowledge Acquisition](https://aclanthology.org/2020.emnlp-main.430.pdf) | [SubeventAcquisition](https://github.com/wenlinyao/EMNLP20-SubeventAcquisition) | [RED, ESC, HiEve, Timebank](https://github.com/wenlinyao/EMNLP20-SubeventAcquisition/tree/master/datasets) and [RED](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2016T23) |
| 2020 | EMNLP | [Joint Constrained Learning for Event-Event Relation Extraction](https://cogcomp.seas.upenn.edu/page/publication_view/914) | [CogComp/JointConstrainedLearning](https://github.com/CogComp/JointConstrainedLearning) | [MATRES](https://github.com/why2011btv/JointConstrainedLearning/tree/master/MATRES) and [HiEve](https://github.com/why2011btv/JointConstrainedLearning/tree/master/hievents_v2) |
## 事件抽取

### 中文（句子）事件抽取

| 年份 | 来源 |                             名称                             |                            源码                             |                            数据集                            |
| :--: | :--: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
| 2020 | CCL  | [A Novel Joint Framework for Multiple Chinese Events Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/2020.ccl-1.88/) | [Code](https://github.com/prafulla77/Event-Coref-EACL-2021) | [Data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NNBKiO4eYkGBjkdXGUieKg2fCWfbUBuf) |
| 2021 | ACL  | [CasEE: A Joint Learning Framework with Cascade Decoding for Overlapping Event Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/2021.findings-acl.14/) |        [Code](https://github.com/JiaweiSheng/CasEE)         | [FewFC (中国金融事件提取数据集)](https://github.com/TimeBurningFish/FewFC) |

### 篇章级事件抽取

| 年份 |     来源      |                             名称                             |                             源码                             |                            数据集                            |
| :--: | :-----------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
| 2018 |      ACL      | [DCFEE: A Document-level Chinese Financial Event Extraction System based on Automatically Labeled Training Data](https://aclanthology.org/P18-4009/) |         [Code](https://github.com/yanghang111/DCFEE)         |         [Data](https://github.com/yanghang111/DCFEE)         |
| 2019 |     EMNLP     | [Doc2EDAG: An End-to-End Document-level Framework for Chinese Financial Event Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/D19-1032/) |        [Code](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG)        | [ChFinAnn(2008年至2018年中国上市公司的财务公告)](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |
| 2021 |      ACL      | （GIT）[Document-level Event Extraction via Heterogeneous Graph-based Interaction Model with a Tracker](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-long.274/) |           [Code](https://github.com/RunxinXu/GIT)            | [ChFinAnn](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |
| 2021 |      ACL      | (DE-PPN)[Document-level Event Extraction via Parallel Prediction Networks](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-long.492/) | [官方](https://github.com/HangYang-NLP/DE-PPN)、[非官方](https://github.com/Spico197/DE-PPN) | [ChFinAnn](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |
| 2021 | arxiv(待发表) | (PTPCG)[Efficient Document-level Event Extraction via Pseudo-Trigger-aware Pruned Complete Graph](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.06013) |          [Code](https://github.com/Spico197/DocEE)           | [ChFinAnn](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |

### 开放域事件抽取

| 年份 | 来源 |                             名称                             |                        源码                         |                            数据集                            |
| :--: | :--: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
| 2019 | ACL  | [Open Domain Event Extraction Using Neural Latent Variable Models](https://aclanthology.org/P19-1276/) | [Code](https://github.com/lx865712528/ACL2019-ODEE) | [Data](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KjL3mAxj9nmzqC75s2rNaT6x6CJBZZTj/view) |
| 2022 | TOIS | [A Multi-Channel Hierarchical Graph Attention Network for Open Event Extraction](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3528668) |     [Code](https://github.com/hawisdom/DL-OEE)      |                     CoNLL-2009 & ACE2005                     |

## 基础阅读
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2019 |  | [RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11692) |  |  |
| 2019 | | ELG: An Event Logic Graph(提出事理图谱) | | |
| 2018 | | [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://readpaper.com/paper/2963341956) | | |
| 2017 | | [Attention is All you Need](https://readpaper.com/paper/2963403868) | | |

## 扩展阅读

### 综述

| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2021 | IEEE Access | [A Survey on Event Extraction for Natural Language Understanding: Riding the Biomedical Literature Wave](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9627684) |  |  |
| 2021 | IEEE DSC | [Survey on social event detection](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9750511) |  |  |
| 2021 | [LNNS](https://link.springer.com/bookseries/15179) | [Deep Learning Approaches to Detect Real Time Events Recognition in Smart Manufacturing Systems – A Short Survey](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-84910-8_20) |  |  |
| 2021 |  TKDE 2022 | [**What is Event Knowledge Graph: A Survey**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.15280) |  |  |
| 2020 | AI Open | [Extracting Events and Their Relations from Texts: A Survey on Recent Research Progress and Challenges](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S266665102100005X?via%3Dihub) |  |  |
| 2020 | [Knowledge-Based Systems](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/knowledge-based-systems) | [A survey on multi-modal social event detection](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705120301271?via%3Dihub) |  |  |
| 2020 | CCKS | [A Survey on Event Relation Identification](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-16-1964-9_14) |  |  |
| 2019 | IEEE Access | [A Survey of Event Extraction From Text](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8918013) |  |  |
| 2019 | 计算机科学 | [元事件抽取研究综述](https://www.jsjkx.com/CN/10.11896/j.issn.1002-137X.2019.08.002) |  |  |
| 2019 | ACM Trans | [How Deep Features Have Improved Event Recognition in Multimedia: A Survey](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3306240) |  |  |
| 2018 | IJCAI | [Event Coreference Resolution: A Survey of Two Decades of Research](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2018/773) |  |  |
| 2020 |  | [Reviews on Event Knowledge Graph Construction Techniques and Application-ReadPaper](http://www.c-a-m.org.cn/EN/10.3969/j.issn.1006-2475.2020.01.003) | | |
| 2021 | KSEM | [Event Relation Reasoning Based on Event Knowledge Graph](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-82136-4_40) | | |
| 2020 |  | [Introduction: What Is a Knowledge Graph?](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007%2F978-3-030-37439-6_1.pdf) | | |
| 2021 |  | [OEKG - The Open Event Knowledge Graph](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2829/paper5.pdf) | | [Data](https://oekg.l3s.uni-hannover.de/data) |
| 2021 | CCKS | [MEED: A Multimodal Event Extraction Dataset](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-16-6471-7_23) |      | |

### 事理图谱

|   年份    |         来源         |                             名称                             |                             源码                             | 数据集 |
| :-------: | :------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----: |
|   2020    | 计算机与现代化(CNKI) | [事件知识图谱构建技术与应用综述](https://kns.cnki.net/kcms/detail/detail.aspx?dbcode=CJFD&dbname=CJFDLAST2020&filename=JYXH202001005&uniplatform=NZKPT&v=R-yruosM4vT_LhO2b-Qn2PzbUY-rgOez3a94GSCtf17lec6pZdk5UoP-I70xfYcc) |                                                              |        |
|   2021    |  大数据（中文期刊）  | [事件图谱的构建、推理与应用 ](http://www.infocomm-journal.com/bdr/CN/abstract/abstract171352.shtml) |                                                              |        |
|   2022    |         ACL          | [MMEKG: Multi-modal Event Knowledge Graph towards Universal Representation across Modalities](https://aclanthology.org/2022.acl-demo.23/) |                                                              |        |
|   2020    |        哈工大        | [面向金融领域的事理图谱构建关键技术研究](https://chn.oversea.cnki.net/KCMS/detail/detail.aspx?dbcode=CMFD&dbname=CMFD202101&filename=1020400011.nh&uniplatform=OVERSEA&v=t3vgLCmLnsHff3yx2H7k3wqmMvALzLmpG1StrbVB5HTy-h9T3hKVRrU_3q67BlFd) |                                                              |        |
| 2018-2021 |        IJCAI         | [SGNN 哈工大刘挺的博士 面向文本事件预测的事理图谱构建及应用方法研究_李忠阳](https://t.cnki.net/kcms/detail?v=sLRZPqxRYE3pHnscegK63uj1X-Ak4AimBdeP_sQplqNY172D9MXuhmfbybsKxfLKTUk3oB2bEU_16Ldfn1Or7zlQUDWyCcTKzPQoTeY3ZC3-PfN-WFhfpBSZ7MWX-ZguAr9UppBkGYI=&uniplatform=NZKPT) | [eecrazy/ConstructingNEEG_IJCAI_2018](https://github.com/eecrazy/ConstructingNEEG_IJCAI_2018) |        |

## 一些工具

- [dblp: computer science bibliography](https://dblp.org/)
- [arXiv.org e-Print archive](https://arxiv.org/)
- [Sci-Hub](https://sci-hub.se/)
- [ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/)
- [zotero](https://www.zotero.org/)

## GNN相关知识
+ B站课程：
    + [李沐的零基础多图详解图神经网络](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1iT4y1d7zP?spm_id_from=333.880.my_history.page.click&vd_source=137a8d9e49a8aecb804950139f2cd561)
    + [图卷积神经网络（GCN）的数学原理详解](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Vw411R7Fj?p=1&vd_source=137a8d9e49a8aecb804950139f2cd561)
+ Distill上的两篇相关技术博客
    + [A Gentle Introduction to Graph Neural Networks](https://distill.pub/2021/gnn-intro/)  P.S. 这篇博客就是李沐那个视频里讲的博客
    + [Understanding Convolutions on Graphs](https://distill.pub/2021/understanding-gnns/)

## 数据集
|数据集名称| 年份 | 来源 | 论文名称 | 描述 | 下载 |
| :-----: | :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----:| :-----:|
| ConceptNet | 2017 | | [ConceptNet 5.5: An Open Multilingual Graph of General Knowledge](https://readpaper.com/paper/2561529111) |a large-scale commonsense knowledge graph for commonsense concepts, entities, events and relations||
| MATRES | 2018 | | [A Multi-Axis Annotation Scheme for Event Temporal Relations]([A Multi-Axis Annotation Scheme for Event Temporal Relations-ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/paper/2798602728)) |a new benchmark dataset for TempRel extraction, which is developed from TempEval3 (UzZaman et al., 2013). It annotates on top of 275 documents with TempRels BEFORE, AFTER, EQUAL, and VAGUE. Particularly, the annotation process of MATRES has defined four axes for the actions of events, i.e. main, intention, opinion, andhypothetical axes. The TempRels are considered for all event pairs on the same axis and within a context of two adjacent sentences. The labels are decided by comparing the starting points of the events. The multi-axis annotation helped MATRES to achieve a high IAA of 0.84 in Cohen's Kappa.||
| HiEve |  | |  |a news corpus that contains 100 articles. Within each article, annotations are given for both subevent and coreference relations. The HiEve adopted the IAA measurement proposed for TempRels by (UzZaman and Allen, 2011), resulting in 0.69 F1.||
| TempEval3 | 2013 | | [Evaluating Time Expressions, Events, and Temporal Relations](https://aclanthology.org/S13-2001.pdf) |||
| RED | 2016 | | [Richer Event Description: Integrating event coreference with temporal, causal and bridging annotation]([Richer Event Description: Integrating event coreference with temporal, causal and bridging annotation-ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/paper/2561222820)) |contains 35 news articles with annotations for event complexes that contain both membership relations and TempRels.||
| ESTER | 2021 | | [ESTER: A Machine Reading Comprehension Dataset for Event Semantic Relation Reasoning](https://readpaper.com/paper/3153067519) |a comprehensive machine reading comprehension (MRC) dataset for Event Semantic Relation Reasoning. The dataset leverages natural language queries to reason about the five most common event semantic relations, provides more than 6K questions and captures 10.1K event relation pairs.||
| CausalBank |  | |  |大规模英文因果数据集||
| TimeBank |  | |  |仅仅标注了部分容易识别的关系子集||
| TimeBank-Dense |  | |  |BEFORE , AFTER , INCLUDES , IS INCLUDED, SIMULTANEOUS , VAGUE||
| GDELT事件库 |  | |  |利用超过100 种语言的全球新闻媒体数据, 自动发现并记录了自 1979 年 1 月 1 日以来的所有人类社会主要事件|[Site](https://www.gdeltproject.org/)|
| LinkedData |  | |  |150年的新闻文章和200亿条关系的知识图谱||
| VLEP |  | |  |一个视频与字幕结合的多模态事件预测数据集||
| EventKG | | | ||[Data](https://oekg.l3s.uni-hannover.de/data)|
| OEKG | | | ||[Data](https://oekg.l3s.uni-hannover.de/data)|
|  | | | [事件抽取相关数据集整理 - 知乎 (zhihu.com)](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/443260886) |||
|  | | | [开放资源：面向事件时序因果关系识别的17类开源标注数据集总结 - 墨天轮 (modb.pro)](https://www.modb.pro/db/379577) |||

Commit message:

[Add item]: Joint event and temporal relation extraction

README.md, after:

[TOC]

# 事件抽取与事件关系抽取论文整理

## 事件关系抽取

### 事件因果关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2020 | COLING |[KnowDis: Knowledge Enhanced Data Augmentation for Event Causality Detection via Distant Supervision](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.coling-main.135)||[COPA](https://people.ict.usc.edu/~gordon/copa.html)|
| 2020 | IJCAI | [Knowledge Enhanced Event Causality Identification with Mention Masking Generalizations](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2020/499) | [Code](https://github.com/jianliu-ml/EventCausalityIdentification) ||
| 2022 | SIGIR | [Towards Event-level Causal Relation Identification](https://doi.org/10.1145/3477495.3531758) | [Code](https://github.com/HITSZ-HLT/Graph4ECI) | [EventStoryLine](https://github.com/tommasoc80/EventStoryLine) |
### 事件共指关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2021 | AAAI | [Span-Based Event Coreference Resolution](https://www.aaai.org/AAAI21Papers/AAAI-9086.LJ.pdf) |||
| 2021 | EACL | [Automatic Data Acquisition for Event Coreference Resolution](https://aclanthology.org/2021.eacl-main.101/) | [Code](https://github.com/prafulla77/Event-Coref-EACL-2021) | [Data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NNBKiO4eYkGBjkdXGUieKg2fCWfbUBuf) |
| 2021 | NAACL | [A Context-Dependent Gated Module for Incorporating Symbolic Semantics into Event Coreference Resolution](http://arxiv.org/abs/2104.01697) | [Code](https://github.com/laituan245/eventcoref) | ACE 2005&KBP 2016 |
### 事件时序关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 | 描述 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: | :-----: |
| 2022 | Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience | [Temporal Relation Extraction with Joint Semantic and Syntactic Attention](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/cin/2022/5680971/) | | TimeBank-Dense & MATRES | |
| 2021 | IJCNLP | [TIMERS: Document-level Temporal Relation Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-short.67.pdf) |  |  |
| 2021 | [计算机研究与发展](https://crad.ict.ac.cn/) | [融合上下文信息的篇章级事件时序关系抽取方法](https://crad.ict.ac.cn/CN/abstract/abstract4529.shtml) |  |TimeBank-Dense & MATRES  |
| 2021 | NAACL |[EventPlus: A Temporal Event Understanding Pipeline](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04922) | [Code](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04922) | TimeBank-Dense, MATRES & ACE2005 | 事件抽取与事件时序关系抽取的流水线模型 |
| 2019 | ACL | [Fine-Grained Temporal Relation Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/P19-1280.pdf) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/time/) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/time/) |
| 2019 | CCF | [Event Temporal Relation Classification Based on Graph Convolutional Networks](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-32236-6_35) |  | TimeBank-Dense ||
| 2019 | CONLL | [Deep Structured Neural Network for Event Temporal Relation Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/K19-1062/) | [Code](https://github.com/PlusLabNLP/Deep-Structured-EveEveTemp) | TCR, TimeBank-Dense & MATRES ||
| 2019 | EMNLP-IJCNLP | [Joint Event and Temporal Relation Extraction with Shared Representations and Structured Prediction](https://aclanthology.org/D19-1041/) | [Code](https://github.com/PlusLabNLP/JointEventTempRel) | TB-Dense & MATRES ||
| 2018 |  | [TEMPROB: Improving Temporal Relation Extraction with a Globally Acquired Statistical Resource-ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/paper/2797731290) |  |  |  provides prior knowledge of the temporal order that some events usually follow.|

### 事件父子关系抽取
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2022 | TACL | [Decomposing and Recomposing Event Structure](https://aclanthology.org/2022.tacl-1.2.pdf) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/event-structure/) | [decomp](http://decomp.io/projects/event-structure/) |
| 2021 | EMNLP | [Learning Constraints and Descriptive Segmentation for Subevent Detection](https://cogcomp.seas.upenn.edu/page/publication_view/950) | [CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg](https://github.com/CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg) | [HiEve](https://github.com/CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg/tree/main/hievents_v2) and [IC](https://github.com/CogComp/Subevent_EventSeg/tree/main/IC) |
| 2021 | EMNLP | [Weakly Supervised Subevent Knowledge Acquisition](https://aclanthology.org/2020.emnlp-main.430.pdf) | [SubeventAcquisition](https://github.com/wenlinyao/EMNLP20-SubeventAcquisition) | [RED, ESC, HiEve, Timebank](https://github.com/wenlinyao/EMNLP20-SubeventAcquisition/tree/master/datasets) and [RED](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2016T23) |
| 2020 | EMNLP | [Joint Constrained Learning for Event-Event Relation Extraction](https://cogcomp.seas.upenn.edu/page/publication_view/914) | [CogComp/JointConstrainedLearning](https://github.com/CogComp/JointConstrainedLearning) | [MATRES](https://github.com/why2011btv/JointConstrainedLearning/tree/master/MATRES) and [HiEve](https://github.com/why2011btv/JointConstrainedLearning/tree/master/hievents_v2) |
## 事件抽取

### 中文（句子）事件抽取

| 年份 | 来源 |                             名称                             |                            源码                             |                            数据集                            |
| :--: | :--: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
| 2020 | CCL  | [A Novel Joint Framework for Multiple Chinese Events Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/2020.ccl-1.88/) | [Code](https://github.com/prafulla77/Event-Coref-EACL-2021) | [Data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NNBKiO4eYkGBjkdXGUieKg2fCWfbUBuf) |
| 2021 | ACL  | [CasEE: A Joint Learning Framework with Cascade Decoding for Overlapping Event Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/2021.findings-acl.14/) |        [Code](https://github.com/JiaweiSheng/CasEE)         | [FewFC (中国金融事件提取数据集)](https://github.com/TimeBurningFish/FewFC) |

### 篇章级事件抽取

| 年份 |     来源      |                             名称                             |                             源码                             |                            数据集                            |
| :--: | :-----------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
| 2018 |      ACL      | [DCFEE: A Document-level Chinese Financial Event Extraction System based on Automatically Labeled Training Data](https://aclanthology.org/P18-4009/) |         [Code](https://github.com/yanghang111/DCFEE)         |         [Data](https://github.com/yanghang111/DCFEE)         |
| 2019 |     EMNLP     | [Doc2EDAG: An End-to-End Document-level Framework for Chinese Financial Event Extraction](https://aclanthology.org/D19-1032/) |        [Code](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG)        | [ChFinAnn(2008年至2018年中国上市公司的财务公告)](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |
| 2021 |      ACL      | （GIT）[Document-level Event Extraction via Heterogeneous Graph-based Interaction Model with a Tracker](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-long.274/) |           [Code](https://github.com/RunxinXu/GIT)            | [ChFinAnn](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |
| 2021 |      ACL      | (DE-PPN)[Document-level Event Extraction via Parallel Prediction Networks](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-long.492/) | [官方](https://github.com/HangYang-NLP/DE-PPN)、[非官方](https://github.com/Spico197/DE-PPN) | [ChFinAnn](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |
| 2021 | arxiv(待发表) | (PTPCG)[Efficient Document-level Event Extraction via Pseudo-Trigger-aware Pruned Complete Graph](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.06013) |          [Code](https://github.com/Spico197/DocEE)           | [ChFinAnn](https://github.com/dolphin-zs/Doc2EDAG/blob/master/Data.zip) |

### 开放域事件抽取

| 年份 | 来源 |                             名称                             |                        源码                         |                            数据集                            |
| :--: | :--: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: |
| 2019 | ACL  | [Open Domain Event Extraction Using Neural Latent Variable Models](https://aclanthology.org/P19-1276/) | [Code](https://github.com/lx865712528/ACL2019-ODEE) | [Data](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KjL3mAxj9nmzqC75s2rNaT6x6CJBZZTj/view) |
| 2022 | TOIS | [A Multi-Channel Hierarchical Graph Attention Network for Open Event Extraction](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3528668) |     [Code](https://github.com/hawisdom/DL-OEE)      |                     CoNLL-2009 & ACE2005                     |

## 基础阅读
| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2019 |  | [RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11692) |  |  |
| 2019 | | ELG: An Event Logic Graph(提出事理图谱) | | |
| 2018 | | [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://readpaper.com/paper/2963341956) | | |
| 2017 | | [Attention is All you Need](https://readpaper.com/paper/2963403868) | | |

## 扩展阅读

### 综述

| 年份 | 来源 | 名称 | 源码 | 数据集 |
| :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----: | :-----: |
| 2021 | IEEE Access | [A Survey on Event Extraction for Natural Language Understanding: Riding the Biomedical Literature Wave](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9627684) |  |  |
| 2021 | IEEE DSC | [Survey on social event detection](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9750511) |  |  |
| 2021 | [LNNS](https://link.springer.com/bookseries/15179) | [Deep Learning Approaches to Detect Real Time Events Recognition in Smart Manufacturing Systems – A Short Survey](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-84910-8_20) |  |  |
| 2021 |  TKDE 2022 | [**What is Event Knowledge Graph: A Survey**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.15280) |  |  |
| 2020 | AI Open | [Extracting Events and Their Relations from Texts: A Survey on Recent Research Progress and Challenges](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S266665102100005X?via%3Dihub) |  |  |
| 2020 | [Knowledge-Based Systems](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/knowledge-based-systems) | [A survey on multi-modal social event detection](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705120301271?via%3Dihub) |  |  |
| 2020 | CCKS | [A Survey on Event Relation Identification](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-16-1964-9_14) |  |  |
| 2019 | IEEE Access | [A Survey of Event Extraction From Text](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8918013) |  |  |
| 2019 | 计算机科学 | [元事件抽取研究综述](https://www.jsjkx.com/CN/10.11896/j.issn.1002-137X.2019.08.002) |  |  |
| 2019 | ACM Trans | [How Deep Features Have Improved Event Recognition in Multimedia: A Survey](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3306240) |  |  |
| 2018 | IJCAI | [Event Coreference Resolution: A Survey of Two Decades of Research](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2018/773) |  |  |
| 2020 |  | [Reviews on Event Knowledge Graph Construction Techniques and Application-ReadPaper](http://www.c-a-m.org.cn/EN/10.3969/j.issn.1006-2475.2020.01.003) | | |
| 2021 | KSEM | [Event Relation Reasoning Based on Event Knowledge Graph](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-82136-4_40) | | |
| 2020 |  | [Introduction: What Is a Knowledge Graph?](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007%2F978-3-030-37439-6_1.pdf) | | |
| 2021 |  | [OEKG - The Open Event Knowledge Graph](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2829/paper5.pdf) | | [Data](https://oekg.l3s.uni-hannover.de/data) |
| 2021 | CCKS | [MEED: A Multimodal Event Extraction Dataset](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-16-6471-7_23) |      | |

### 事理图谱

|   年份    |         来源         |                             名称                             |                             源码                             | 数据集 |
| :-------: | :------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------: | :----: |
|   2020    | 计算机与现代化(CNKI) | [事件知识图谱构建技术与应用综述](https://kns.cnki.net/kcms/detail/detail.aspx?dbcode=CJFD&dbname=CJFDLAST2020&filename=JYXH202001005&uniplatform=NZKPT&v=R-yruosM4vT_LhO2b-Qn2PzbUY-rgOez3a94GSCtf17lec6pZdk5UoP-I70xfYcc) |                                                              |        |
|   2021    |  大数据（中文期刊）  | [事件图谱的构建、推理与应用 ](http://www.infocomm-journal.com/bdr/CN/abstract/abstract171352.shtml) |                                                              |        |
|   2022    |         ACL          | [MMEKG: Multi-modal Event Knowledge Graph towards Universal Representation across Modalities](https://aclanthology.org/2022.acl-demo.23/) |                                                              |        |
|   2020    |        哈工大        | [面向金融领域的事理图谱构建关键技术研究](https://chn.oversea.cnki.net/KCMS/detail/detail.aspx?dbcode=CMFD&dbname=CMFD202101&filename=1020400011.nh&uniplatform=OVERSEA&v=t3vgLCmLnsHff3yx2H7k3wqmMvALzLmpG1StrbVB5HTy-h9T3hKVRrU_3q67BlFd) |                                                              |        |
| 2018-2021 |        IJCAI         | [SGNN 哈工大刘挺的博士 面向文本事件预测的事理图谱构建及应用方法研究_李忠阳](https://t.cnki.net/kcms/detail?v=sLRZPqxRYE3pHnscegK63uj1X-Ak4AimBdeP_sQplqNY172D9MXuhmfbybsKxfLKTUk3oB2bEU_16Ldfn1Or7zlQUDWyCcTKzPQoTeY3ZC3-PfN-WFhfpBSZ7MWX-ZguAr9UppBkGYI=&uniplatform=NZKPT) | [eecrazy/ConstructingNEEG_IJCAI_2018](https://github.com/eecrazy/ConstructingNEEG_IJCAI_2018) |        |

## 一些工具

- [dblp: computer science bibliography](https://dblp.org/)
- [arXiv.org e-Print archive](https://arxiv.org/)
- [Sci-Hub](https://sci-hub.se/)
- [ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/)
- [zotero](https://www.zotero.org/)

## GNN相关知识
+ B站课程：
    + [李沐的零基础多图详解图神经网络](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1iT4y1d7zP?spm_id_from=333.880.my_history.page.click&vd_source=137a8d9e49a8aecb804950139f2cd561)
    + [图卷积神经网络（GCN）的数学原理详解](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Vw411R7Fj?p=1&vd_source=137a8d9e49a8aecb804950139f2cd561)
+ Distill上的两篇相关技术博客
    + [A Gentle Introduction to Graph Neural Networks](https://distill.pub/2021/gnn-intro/)  P.S. 这篇博客就是李沐那个视频里讲的博客
    + [Understanding Convolutions on Graphs](https://distill.pub/2021/understanding-gnns/)

## 数据集
|数据集名称| 年份 | 来源 | 论文名称 | 描述 | 下载 |
| :-----: | :-----: | :-----:| :-----:| :-----:| :-----:|
| ConceptNet | 2017 | | [ConceptNet 5.5: An Open Multilingual Graph of General Knowledge](https://readpaper.com/paper/2561529111) |a large-scale commonsense knowledge graph for commonsense concepts, entities, events and relations||
| MATRES | 2018 | | [A Multi-Axis Annotation Scheme for Event Temporal Relations]([A Multi-Axis Annotation Scheme for Event Temporal Relations-ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/paper/2798602728)) |a new benchmark dataset for TempRel extraction, which is developed from TempEval3 (UzZaman et al., 2013). It annotates on top of 275 documents with TempRels BEFORE, AFTER, EQUAL, and VAGUE. Particularly, the annotation process of MATRES has defined four axes for the actions of events, i.e. main, intention, opinion, andhypothetical axes. The TempRels are considered for all event pairs on the same axis and within a context of two adjacent sentences. The labels are decided by comparing the starting points of the events. The multi-axis annotation helped MATRES to achieve a high IAA of 0.84 in Cohen's Kappa.||
| HiEve |  | |  |a news corpus that contains 100 articles. Within each article, annotations are given for both subevent and coreference relations. The HiEve adopted the IAA measurement proposed for TempRels by (UzZaman and Allen, 2011), resulting in 0.69 F1.||
| TempEval3 | 2013 | | [Evaluating Time Expressions, Events, and Temporal Relations](https://aclanthology.org/S13-2001.pdf) |||
| RED | 2016 | | [Richer Event Description: Integrating event coreference with temporal, causal and bridging annotation]([Richer Event Description: Integrating event coreference with temporal, causal and bridging annotation-ReadPaper](https://readpaper.com/paper/2561222820)) |contains 35 news articles with annotations for event complexes that contain both membership relations and TempRels.||
| ESTER | 2021 | | [ESTER: A Machine Reading Comprehension Dataset for Event Semantic Relation Reasoning](https://readpaper.com/paper/3153067519) |a comprehensive machine reading comprehension (MRC) dataset for Event Semantic Relation Reasoning. The dataset leverages natural language queries to reason about the five most common event semantic relations, provides more than 6K questions and captures 10.1K event relation pairs.||
| CausalBank |  | |  |大规模英文因果数据集||
| TimeBank |  | |  |仅仅标注了部分容易识别的关系子集||
| TimeBank-Dense |  | |  |BEFORE , AFTER , INCLUDES , IS INCLUDED, SIMULTANEOUS , VAGUE||
| GDELT事件库 |  | |  |利用超过100 种语言的全球新闻媒体数据, 自动发现并记录了自 1979 年 1 月 1 日以来的所有人类社会主要事件|[Site](https://www.gdeltproject.org/)|
| LinkedData |  | |  |150年的新闻文章和200亿条关系的知识图谱||
| VLEP |  | |  |一个视频与字幕结合的多模态事件预测数据集||
| EventKG | | | ||[Data](https://oekg.l3s.uni-hannover.de/data)|
| OEKG | | | ||[Data](https://oekg.l3s.uni-hannover.de/data)|
|  | | | [事件抽取相关数据集整理 - 知乎 (zhihu.com)](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/443260886) |||
|  | | | [开放资源：面向事件时序因果关系识别的17类开源标注数据集总结 - 墨天轮 (modb.pro)](https://www.modb.pro/db/379577) |||
